It's also very important to the ethos of the work
that we do at Black Sky.
And I love this quote because as someone who studies race in
the internet, a lot of times they will try to make you
choose what issue is the most important issue when it comes to
trust and safety, but there is no single issue when we're
dealing with marginalized identities that overlap.
So like I said, for the past 12 plus years, I've
been doing research about this.
I've talked to black women and non-binary people across the
black diaspora.
And this is directly from the research that I did with interviewing
them.
And when I was doing this work, I was always dreaming of
being able to work with a company or an organization that was
actually trying to mitigate harm against black women and non-binary gender
expansive people specifically, but also anti-blackness.
And this was like my driving force, but I didn't know
if anything existed like that.
So when I decided to make my Blue Sky account, one of
my really good friends told me about Black Sky.
And I was like, "Hmm, what's that?" So I slid
in Rudy's DMs and I said, "Hey, we need to
meet." And from then I became a volunteer moderator.
And one of the things that I really wanted to focus on
doing my work as a moderator, because I came from a research
background, was taking the research that I had used, the reading that
I had done, and using that to help implement trust and safety
for our moderation tool, which is what I'll be talking about
today.
So when I first started, there was a very, very, very small
team of moderators, Rudy being one of them.
And this is what the original page looked like.
We had two labels.
It was misogynoir and anti-black harassment.
And this is our beautiful team that has grown over the past
year or so.
And I'm saying here that the beginning matters because there was
a need for this type of moderation tool and tech in general,
but being in a decentralized space allowed us to actually create said
tool and have control over how we can moderate these spaces to
make people safe.
So who puts the trust in trust and safety, right?
One of the big things that I talk a lot about in
my work and really drives the work that we do is that
if you don't have community trust, then you don't have
a very good trust and safety situation going on.
And that's just the reality.
Because when you think about trust and safety, the trust is coming
from the community members to believe that you are going to be
able to actually protect them or mitigate the harm that will come
up and that you're going to actually listen to what their
needs are and not try to create a top down environment of
what you think trust and safety looks like.
So this is how we get down at Black Sky.
We have volunteer moderators who are community members from the Black
Diaspora internationally.
Shout out to JD.
We have an open communication and feedback loop where we have a
separate signal just for the moderators.
We have a Black Sky trust and safety signal.
And then we have, of course, our all teams.
And the style is that if any issues come up or confusion
or there is a difficult case or report that comes through, we
have full-blown discussions before we decide how to moderate that.
And for some people, they may not think that is, like, sustainable,
but it's worked.
And I have the data to prove that later.
And we also have accessible documentation, which was really important to me
as an educator, to make sure that whatever we're doing internally,
you can go on our doc site and you can read exactly
how we're doing it.
And our trust and safety lead, JD, did a really good job
of creating our internal SOP, which allowed community members to understand
how moderation works as people who may not have a background in
trust and safety.
Because I'm a firm believer that, like, everyone is an expert
on their Black experience and, like, your credentials honestly don't mean
anything, right?
So I have a PhD, but I also have experience with digital
massage noir.
I've also been on the internet since dial-up, right?
So my personal experience really shapes how I view safety online.
And it allows you to not let your credentials overrule the
actual realities of what's happening on the internet, right?
Because the reality is your community doesn't care that you worked
in trust and safety for 15 years if you all don't
have anything that's actually moderating the harm that they're
dealing with on a day-to-day basis, right?
It's a mute point.
So, you know, Black Sky is all about self-determination and
self-governance, and we really stick by that.
And I know that in a lot of movement spaces, there are
organizations that use these types of buzzwords, but there still is,
like I said earlier, like a top-down type of effect.
But that's not how it works for us.
So, remember, in the beginning, there were two labels.
So when I started moderating, I was really starting to think
about how there were specific cases that didn't fall under those
two labels.
And I'll give an example.
There was a report that was made about a particular post, and
it was actually internalized anti-black rhetoric, right?
But the only label we had at the time was anti-black
harassment.
That person was not harassing people.
They were making a statement, but it was anti-black.
So when I saw that, I was like, ooh, we actually need
more labels.
So because we use Black Sky's People's Assembly, which is
through polis, where people can submit features or even labels or
things that they need, I decided to come up with some labels
and I deployed it in the People's Assembly, and people voted
on it, right?
So the community got to decide if these labels were actually important,
and it was a resounding yes.
And we have decided internally that we are going to constantly be
updating our labels because when it comes to trust and safety, you
have to have your finger on the pulse, right?
You cannot just make a list of trust and safety labels or
a labeler that only does this one specific thing and not
think about the cultural context, right?
The times that we're living in, what may come up in
the news, what new harms may come up that we didn't
even know was a thing, right?
I'll go over more of the labels that we end up
deploying later, but by having Black Sky's People's Assembly, it
allows us to stay rooted in community, right?
What I had on my earlier slide, which is the whole purpose
of trying to steward for a group of people.
I know that typically in big tech, it can feel very suff
ocating, not really understanding the transparency of trust and safety, but
I do believe that on the protocol, we have a responsibility of
providing the transparency that people may not get on other applications.
So, and here's where the data points come in, this is
the researcher in me, this is my favorite part.
Okay, so when I first became a volunteer moderator, I think there
were maybe like two or three, one of them being Rudy.
And we had a very small team, we still have a very
small team, and we were able to moderate over 49,000 reports,
right?
Human to human moderation, right, in the trenches.
And of those reports, by October 2025, we were able to label
583 of them as misogynoir.
And like I stated earlier, there is not a moderation tool on
any app that does this.
I want to make that clear every single time.
And the reason why I keep saying this is because as someone
who has literally researched this stuff for so long, experienced it, witnessed
it, it almost felt as if it was impossible for it to
happen, and this environment made it possible, which gives me hope that
other moderation tools are possible as well for particular groups.
So the labels that I had submitted to the People's Assembly,
that the community voted, voted on, and all votes are anonymous, was
anti-black harassment was already one, misogynoir, but we
added violence, right, because there were people getting threats, and that didn
't follow under harassment or misogynoir.
Doxing, that's an automatic no-no, that was not
a label that we had.
We moderated for it, but we also wanted to be able
to label that as well.
Non-consensual intimate images, which is important to me because
a lot of the work that I had been doing before was
focusing on, like, deep fake porn and how people were using AI
to manipulate having, you know, non-consensual sexual relations with
people on the internet.
Synthetic media, which was a big one, which is why
I talk a lot about, like, changing your labels and, like, adding
new labels is because the uptick of synthetic media, there
needs to be moderation for that, that is directly impacting the black
community.
So, to be transparent, we've seen things like beheadings,
you know, people making videos of Michelle Obama being, you know, harmed,
putting black women's faces on George Floyd, right?
All of these things are coming through the reports, and if you
're subscribed to our label or use blackside.
community, you might not even see those things because when we
get the reports, we're going through them, right?
And then white supremacy or anti-black rhetoric was a very interesting
conversation amongst the moderators before we decided to, like, push these
out for votes because we wanted to make sure that if someone
's post got labeled for that, we knew how to explain why
if they wanted to appeal it, right?
And when it comes to anti-black rhetoric, when it comes to
misogynoir, these things can also be internalized as
well, and the purpose of the labeler and the moderation tool
is not to say that one particular race of people are har
ming black people, it is that everyone can enact in this type
of harm, and we have to moderate towards all of it.
So, down here, if you know about the labeler or you
use blacksky.
community, which you should be, if someone has a label on
their post, it'll say what the label is for, right?
And if they want to appeal it, they can.
They can click on the label, they can send an email and
appeal it.
We have a whole entire appealing process, which also is a conversation
amongst the team as well.
There are some things that are, like, a no-go.
If you're doxing non-consensual intimate images,
like, you're out of here because that's just wrong on
all levels.
And if we were in the UK, you have 48 hours to
take it down by law.
We don't have that here right now, so we have to,
you know, set some boundaries.
And we also have the option to label accounts that have repeated
behavior.
We have the option to greenlist them, which is a subscription
list where it has all the people who have been greenlisted,
which means that it can, like, automatically block those accounts.
You won't see their content.
And then we also have ban from TV as well, which allows
them to not interact with the Black Sky feed.
And this is important because we want to make sure that if
someone is repeatedly causing harm, that we are setting up guardra
ils so they don't continue to cause harm.
It also requires a lot of cultural nuance, being tapped in, long
conversations, doing your Googles, no Gemini, right?
It takes a lot of that because there are instances where there
may be a celebrity, I won't say any names, who have
a history of violence towards Black women, who may have people rally
behind them, but they have a history of harassing Black women
on different platforms.
They've been banned from those platforms, so we must do the
same for ours to be proactive, which is something that I'm
going to also talk about as well.
Before I do that, I do want to shout out ACOR
N.
So our wonderful engineer, Richie, made ACORN.
And ACORN came out of a lot of the frust
rations we were having with Ozone, to be transparent, when it
came to just accessibility as far as, like, being able to do
it on a tablet or a mobile phone, just having certain things
that would just make the process easier.
And although I am not an expert on the back end of
content moderation, that's what JD is really good at, we were
able to actually collaborate on what that would look like, and they
were able to work in tandem to create a platform for Black
Sky to moderate with.
Another thing is that one of the things that I implemented when
I first started moderating was ways to take care of yourself.
So I, like, made a little, like, doc with, like, somatic
stuff, like, you know, healing and sounds and, like, websites and resources
that are pinned in the signal.
And we want to continue to build out those types of wellness
things within our setup because content moderation can cause a lot of
decision fatigue.
It can cause a lot of fatigue.
It can cause a lot of trauma.
You see a lot of things that you may not see on
a day-to-day basis.
And because we have community members doing the moderation and not, like,
professional trust and safety people, we want to make sure that they
feel safe as well, especially because commercial content moderation is treated like
slave labor labor in other countries like the Philippines, and we don
't go for that.
So ACORN was built for Black Sky for us to
be able to create a more accessible and a space for moderation
to happen.
And they're continuously building out new features as we see, like,
okay, well, maybe we should do this.
Well, maybe we should add this and, like, making things time-bound
as well.
So people are forced to take breaks because we had a really
big backlog.
And JD and I were, like, really, like, around the clock moder
ating and, like, Rudy was jumping in.
And we kind of all realized that, like, okay, we don't
want the other moderators to ever have to do that because
that can be very traumatic in the long run.
And we want them to be able to sustain doing the work
to keep their community safe.
And here on my left is what it looks like when you
go to label.
So on our side panel, which you all don't see, it
has all of the labels in their definitions.
So you automatically know what the label is actually about.
So you don't have to keep going back and forth to
the SOP.
And then we really encourage all moderators to leave some type
of comment.
I just put massage and wash so you can see where it
goes.
Because if another moderator comes in behind it, they can kind of
know, like, why this person was moderated this way.
Is this person a repeat offender?
What do we want to do next?
And this also helps with appeals, right, because anybody can repeal
the label.
And when we have that information in ACORN, it allows
us to be able to make a decision with the investigation on
if it's something that we will, you know, lift.
Or if there's a conversation that needs to be had.
Which I think is really why we have gained a lot of
trust within the community is how we handle these types of situations.
So this is where things go wrong in trust and safety.
And I know people have in their bios, like, this is not
a representation of my organization, but it is.
This is truly how we feel, right?
There is a lack of community trust, right?
People do not trust a lot of people in trust and safety
because there is an ignorance of cultural nuances, right?
There is an unwillingness to acknowledge mistakes.
A lot of people are reactive instead of proactive.
And the words and actions don't match.
And that's a danger zone, right?
That is a recipe for disaster.
And we've all seen disasters everywhere online.
And the biggest thing is that not understanding the community you serve,
right?
It is very difficult for your community to trust that you care
about what is important to them if they don't even think
that you actually know what's going on, right?
That you're so disconnected that, like, oh, I'm just logging
in to do some trust and safety, but I don't even
pay attention to what's happening in those communities.
Which is why I really enjoy my role, because not only do
I get to assist with the content moderation and trust and safety,
but I also get to pay attention to what's actually happening
within the community.
And not just within Black Sky, but the protocol at large.
And that helps me signal to JD and the other moderators,
like, hey, this topic has come up.
We may get a lot of reports for this, right?
That's being proactive.
So, you know, I'm not here to, you know, bash people
over the head, right?
I'm also here to provide repair and to help people rebuild,
because I do really believe in trust and safety.
And I do think that, you know, there is a level of
grace, but there's also, there is a level of wanting to
do better and to use your self-efficacy, believing that
you can do better, that pushes me to run a strict program.
So this is where the strict program begins for all the trust
and safety people.
Ongoing training, right?
And you need to have your trainings be specific to the things
that are coming up within your communities, right?
And the training is really good for, not only for your internal
team to understand, but also like, okay, this keeps coming up when
we're reporting something and the mods are getting stuck on it.
So we need to create a training on this particular label because
they may not understand what misogynoir is, right?
And that was a big thing.
People don't really know what misogynoir is and
they think there's like misogynoir light and mis
ogynoir 2.
0, but like it all falls under misogynoir.
And that's a part of the training, right?
Community feedback, right?
If the community is constantly telling you like, why are you constantly
suspending these specific accounts?
Why is this happening?
What's going on?
You all need to be transparent about that.
And there is a strategic way to do that through like your
communications channels and trust and safety reports.
Staying mission aligned, right?
Words plus actions that don't match equals a danger zone, right?
If you say you care about a community, you must stay mission
aligned.
And that also means that you may have to do some research.
You might have to actually listen to those being most harmed.
And you may start to start having hard conversations about how your
trust and safety is set up, what those policies actually mean.
And if you need to go back to the drawing board and
come into terms with the fact that you may not be equipped
to do these policies on your own.
You may have to hire people who are a part of those
communities, right?
Have them as consultants to help you build out some of the
policies for the groups that you are working with.
So in the end, I just want to say that I know
that trust and safety is really obvious for a lot of people
because it's very vague.
It's been vague from a user standpoint, from a community standpoint,
it's vague for researchers like myself.
But I do believe that from the work that I've been
able to do with Black Sky, from how I see the reactions
of how we're moderating, from the way we're able
to continue to build and grow and create a community ecosystem where
people are asking like, well, how are y'all moderating things?
It lets me know that people are interested in being better at
trust and safety, but like I said, it also takes self-e
fficacy and believing that you can actually do it and holding
yourself accountable when you're trying to take the easy way out
or push the blame on someone else.
Thank you.
Thank you very much.
That was wonderful.
We have some time for questions.
I see one.
How would you like people to refer to you as Dr.
K, Dr.
Coghill?
Dr.
K is fine.
Wonderful.
I'll bring the mic to you.
Hi, Dr.
K.
Hi, Brian.
I just want to ask something that you talked about that I
thought was really important was the understanding the communities that you serve.
And one of the things, you know, we've heard these say
ings, which is like, doing trust and safety right is impossible.
And what I think sometimes, what I wonder, what I want to
ask is, how do you help people define, how do we help
people understand what the community or communities they serve are?
So that they're delivering trust and safety, like, for example, when
you think about a blue sky, there's not one community.
There's so many communities, and that's why you can't
moderate them the same way.
And so how do you, is it that big world social networks
that aren't aligned around an ethos or a mission are
doomed to have this problem?
Or is there a way to do that when you have these
intersecting groups with different experiences and different backgrounds and different places?
How do you help TNS deal in a space like that?
Yeah, so I want to go back to Dr.
Safiya Noble's book, Algorithms of Oppression.
I believe in the last chapter she talks about that they need
to bring humanities back into computer science.
They need to hire black women at these trust and safety spaces
and building the algorithms, and that's where it begins, right?
A lot of trust and safety teams are overwhelmingly white, and that
's the problem.
And because of that, it makes it difficult to know what the
intersecting identities and communities are because you may have some, like,
unchecked biases that you may not even realize when you're
creating the labels, right?
And you have control over how many labels you have and how
often you change them.
So if you realize that you're getting complaints or you realize
that there's been an uptick of a particular type
of report, it would make sense to, you know, laser focus in
on that and add that as a label.
I also think that, like, yes, social networks are big.
There's all types of people, but I also see that as
an excuse, right?
Because if you want to keep the internet safe, there will never
be a safe internet, but there is a way to mitigate harm.
And if that is the goal of what you're trying to
do, it is possible.
It's just going to take the work and also is going
to require you to be tapped in more so than you may
not be.
Yeah, and that's why it's important for you to have
different types of community members and trust and safety people on your
teams so you can have those people with those expert experiences, not
an expert resume.
So something that I noticed listening to this talk is
that there feels like there's room being made for restor
ative justice in communities as part of moderation.
And are there any conversations that you can share about what that
might look like at Black Sky?
Yeah, so we haven't talked deeply particularly about restorative justice,
but that is a framework that is grounded in the work that
I do.
And one of the ways that I think we implement restorative
justice is through our self-governance and also through our appeal
process, where we will have the conversation about exactly what was said,
what was done.
And I know that that can be difficult depending on the scale
of the organization or the company you're with.
But that one-to-one is really helpful to explain to people,
you know, why certain labels were applied.
I also think that because we have such a strong trusting community,
like they trust in us to mitigate the harm, we lean into
the restorative justice model naturally when it comes to how we
deal with harm in general.
It's not very punitive, right?
You don't automatically get labeled, you don't automatically get banned.
It is a longer process and there's always room for you
to appeal or for you to want to have a conversation of
trying to change that behavior.
Because the goal is not to exclude people from community if they
actually want to come together and do the work to be better,
you know, community members.
When trust and safety work goes well, it's often invisible, right?
If there's not bad content, it's not out there.
And kind of the value to the community maybe isn't felt
or what kinds of work is being done doesn't get seen.
So transparency reports can be a way to do that, but they
can be very kind of like pie graph, some numbers, a little
abstract.
Do you have any thoughts on kind of like how to communicate
with the community, like the work that's being done or like,
you know, involving people in the process can be part of that.
Yeah, so one of the things that I think we do well
is we do a lot of like blog posts and we do
a lot of educational stuff.
That's like one of the big parts of like my work
in particular is providing like educational materials exactly about why we moderate
a certain way, how many reports we're getting, really like talking
about like the, like, which is important for a lot of the
community members is like when you go to moderate something, what is
the best way to explain what you're, what, when you're
going to report something, what is the best way to explain what
you're reporting, right?
What are the steps to take to make sure that the proper
label is being put?
And then also we do not make large decisions around moderation without
going to the community first.
And if you've been paying attention to the work we've
been doing recently with Black Sky Only posts, like we're not
going to move the needle if the community is like, please give
us a moment.
We need to think this through.
And I think that that types of transparency makes it more accessible
as well.
Cause I definitely agree.
Like the pie charts and things can be very confusing.
So having other mediums of that knowledge base is helpful for
all different types of community members.
I had a question.
You talked earlier about, um, making intentional choices and how you moderate
and how context is important.
Um, how do you balance the sense of urgency of moderation versus,
uh, um, collective choice or, or maybe, uh, collective choice isn't
the best word, but, uh, seeking, seeking, seeking the choice of other
peers in this trust and safety space to, to make a choice
together about something.
Uh, cause I, I just wonder about how difficult it is to
be, uh, how, how important it is to be immediately reactive versus
more intentional.
Yeah, so because we have, um, very detailed labels and our SF
P is labeled, when we do get edge cases, they're very
rare.
So the way that we do it is like, we go to,
yeah, we go to our chat and somebody will drop it in
and ask for feedback and people will chime in on the feedback
and then we'll move with the decision.
Um, if something urgent comes in nine times out of 10, it
is something that's already attached to a label, right?
Um, edge cases are things that are like when we had the
anti-black rhetoric thing, we were like, is that harassment or is
that rhetoric?
That is what those conversations look like.
But if someone is doing something that is violent, there's not
really a conversation that needs to be had.
It's very like transparent and clear.
As a person who has these particular intersecting identities and
it's a sort of the work that I've thought about
a lot, how do you deal with things like anti-fatness
as anti-blackness?
Like, where is that sitting today in the moderation that you're
doing?
Yeah, so we are constantly working on new labels and that is
one of the labels.
But right now, like, just like when we were using just mis
ogynoir and anti-black harassment, if you're being fat
phobic to a black person, that's anti-black rhetoric.
Yeah.
But we are going to be adding more specific labels like text
urism, colorism, Islamophobia, all those particular things.
Hi, Dr.
K.
Just trying to empathize with or trying to put myself in
the place of your team, how are you distributing the workload of
moderating in a way that's equitable?
And you mentioned some things are time-bound.
But, yeah.
So, oh, sorry.
I got stuff to think.
So, our volunteer moderators are not required to moderate, which means
that a lot of the maybe access moderation does fall on, like,
JD and I.
Mainly JD at this point, but we are bringing on new volunteer
moderators and we are looking into possibly building out a peer-
to-peer moderation.
So, we are able to distribute it more evenly.
But because it's volunteer moderation, we do not require anyone to
moderate.
Like, they can jump in and out whenever they want because that
's what, like, safety looks like in that space.
Well, we've got just a few moments left, so let's
do one more thank you for Dr.
K.
Thank you.